("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Ronja!
- [Narrator] A narrow
escape from Greedy Falls
saw Ronja and Birk return,
exhausted but safe,
to the bear's cave.
They found Lovis
waiting for them.
Again, Ronja refused
to return home.
But autumn was upon them.
The trees were alight
with warm colors,
while the wind
snapped with a chill.
(thunder rumbling)
(somber ambient music)
(ice crackling)
(screams)
(gasps)
(rain pattering)
- Birk!
- I went to find some
dry firewood for us.
(somber piano music)
(water drops plunking)
Oh it's a rainy summer
that we're having.
Although, I'm sure
it'll get better.
(wind blowing)
It's a windy summer
that we're having.
Although, I'm sure that
it will get better.
It's a frosty summer
that we're having.
Although...
My sister isn't happy
and I think I know why.
Maybe it's time
for you to leave.
You can warm yourself
by another fire.
A fire that we know
doesn't belong to me.
- Another fire?
As I'm no longer Mattis' child,
there's no other fire for me.
Not anymore.
- Once I get the fire going,
I'll catch up with you.
(gasps)
(sobbing)
(clears throat)
(screams)
(sobbing)
(upbeat music)
- Ronja, my child.
I have my Ronja! (laughs)
- Am I your child now, Mattis?
Am I really your child again?
- Yes.
As you always have
been, my Ronja.
My child!
For whom I have
wept night and day.
You don't know
how I've suffered.
I've missed you with
all of my heart.
Lovis said to me that you
would come back to us,
if only I were to ask.
Is she right?
Is it true, Ronja?
Will you come back
home with me, now?
Back to the fort?
Please say yes, Ronja.
Come on Ronja.
Let's go now, hm?
(wind blowing)
Although I haven't asked
you to come home yet,
not officially.
Ronja, I'm asking from
the bottom of my heart,
please come home with me.
(groans)
Birk Borkason, come here!
You and I are gonna have a word.
- What could you
possibly want with me?
- What I really want
is to punish you again.
But I'm not going to do that.
Instead, with all
my heart I ask you,
come back to my
fort with us now.
I mean it.
And it's not because I like you.
Don't think that,
whatever you do.
But my daughter likes you.
I realize that now.
And perhaps, one day
in the distant future,
maybe I could learn
to like you too.
I've had some time to think
about things recently.
- Mattis.
Please wait.
Birk and I must discuss
some things by ourselves.
- And why's that?
Ah.
On second thought,
while I'm here,
I'll take a look
at the bear's cave.
Haven't been there in years.
But don't take too long.
We're going home.
You're coming home,
Ronja! (laughs)
(Mattis whistling)
- You're coming home, Ronja.
Where's home for me?
They only want me around
to be their whipping boy.
But I'll never be that, ha!
I'll never be
their whipping boy!
- Their whipping boy?
How foolish are you?
Would you rather freeze to death
by yourself in the bear's cave?
- Yes! I would.
- No you wouldn't.
Our lives are precious,
Birk Borkason.
Don't you understand?
If you really are stupid enough
to stay in the bear's cave
for the entire winter,
you'll be throwing
away your life
and throwing away mine!
- Why do you say that?
Please tell me.
Why would I be throwing
away your life?
- Because!
If you stay in the bear's cave,
I will stay there with you.
I will!
Whether you like it or not!
- Ronja.
Do you know what it
is you're saying?
Do you?
- Yes I do.
I know that nothing
can keep us apart.
And you should
know that as well.
Birk, we are brother and sister!
Okay, numbskull?
- I don't want to throw
your life away, sister mine.
That's the last
thing I'd want to do.
I'll go anywhere,
wherever you want to go.
Yes, even if I end up living
under Mattis' robbers
until it kills me,
and I have to haunt
the castle as a spirit.
Woah!
- Birk, never leave me.
We need each other.
(calm ambient music)
(Mattis humming)
Let's move back, next spring.
And we can live here once more!
- Yes, we will.
Because we'll definitely
be alive come next spring.
(giggling)
(horses neighing)
(horse grunts)
We'll be coming back!
Just stay alive and well.
(horse neighs)
- You'd better!
(cheerful ambient music)
- Mattis?
I want to go home to
Borka's Keep first.
To see how things are with
Undis, Borka, and the rest.
But, I give you my thanks,
for allowing me to
come and see Ronja
whenever I choose to do so.
- Well it won't be easy for me.
But I'll get used
to it. (laughs)
Y'know what Noddle-Pete
is always saying to me?
That old fool.
He thinks that before
we're all caught and hung
by the sheriff,
it would be best for Mattis'
robbers and Borka's robbers
to join forces! (laughs)
Oh dear me.
He has plenty of crazy
ideas, that old idiot.
It's a terrible shame that
your father is such a devil.
Otherwise one might
at least be able
to consider the possibility.
But seeing as how he's
such a dirty devil.
- Though you might be
a dirty devil yourself.
- Might be.
Let's go!
- Yes.
- Sister mine, I'll
see you tomorrow.
And the day after that.
And the day after that!
Every day.
- Yes, every day, Birk Borkason.
I'm home!
Noddle-Pete!
(farts)
- My way of saying welcome home.
(laughing)
It is quite funny, isn't it?
- Oh, Lovis.
Anytime you want me to have a
bath, I'm willing to take one.
- It's long been ready, and
the water has been heated.
- I knew you would do that.
You always think of
everything, don't you Lovis?
And I bet you've never
ever seen a filthier child!
- No, I can't say I have.
(laughing and sobbing)
- I, I, I, I'm so, happy!
- Oh stop crying!
Have some dignity, man.
- Keep quiet!
You could talk.
We've seen you crying too.
- That wasn't crying.
I was just wiping away sweat.
- [Tjorm] Oh
so you have sweat
coming out of your eyes, do you?
- What'd you say?
- Do you want to fight?
(laughing)
- Birk!
(sobbing)
Birk my son, at
last you're home!
- Birk! (sobbing)
(upbeat ambient music)
- [All] Cheers!
(laughing)
(sighs)
- [Mattis] Ronja.
Ronja!
- What's wrong?
- [Mattis] Nothing.
I just wanted to make
sure you were still here.
- Yes, course I am.
Still here!
- [Mattis] Good.
- [Narrator] And so everything
was as it used to be.
Then Ronja wondered
how Birk was getting on
over at Borka's Keep.
I hope he's warm right down
to his toes, she thought.
I'll ask him tomorrow.
(exciting music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
"Fight of the Wild Beasts".
Don't miss it!
(calm ambient music)